# Web scraping on Mars (*Challenge 11*)

This repository contains a mini-project in which I scraped data about news articles and the weather on Mars.

## Author

Daniel R. Murillo Antuna: [@dan-murillo](https://github.com/dan-murillo)

## Overview of the Analysis

The mini-project in this repository contains the analysis of data that were scraped from two different websites about Mars —please find the links to the websites in the **Data Reference** section. The analysis was divided into 2 parts:

-**Part 1**: I used *Python*, *Splinter*, *Beautiful Soup*, *Selenium*, and *Chromedriver* to scrape the titles and previews of news articles about Mars. After scraping the data, I stored the results in Python data structures and ultimately exported them as a JSON.

-**Part 2**: I used *Python*, *Splinter*, *Beautiful Soup*, *Selenium*, and *Chromedriver* to scrape weather data from the Curiosity rover on Mars. After scraping the data, I stored the results in a *Pandas* DataFrame, prepared the data for analysis by changing the data types of all the columns, analysed the data to answer 5 different questions, and exported the data to a CSV file.

### Questions answered in Part 2:

1. **How many months exist on Mars?** There are 12 months on Mars.
2. **How many Martian (and not Earth) days worth of data exist in the scraped dataset?** There are 1867 sols worth of data.
3. **What are the coldest and the warmest months on Mars (at the location of Curiosity)?** The coldest month in Mars is month 3. The temperature is approximately -83.31ºC. The warmest month in Mars is month 8. The temperature is approximately -68.38ºC.
4. **Which months have the lowest and the highest atmospheric pressure on Mars?** The month with the lowest atmospheric pressure on Mars is month 6. The pressure is approximately 745.05. The month with the highest atmospheric pressure on Mars is month 9. The pressure is approximately 913.31.
5. **About how many terrestrial (Earth) days exist in a Martian year?** Based on the plot, which you can look at in the *part_2_mars_weather.ipynb* Jupyter Notebook, there seems to be almost two years between the coldest temperature trough just after the start of 2014 and the next trough almost at the end of 2016. Therefore, my ballpark is: there are approximately 670 Earth days on Mars ((365 days - 30 days) * 2). An Internet search confirmed that a Mars year is equivalent to 687 Earth days.

## Contents of the repository

### The *output_data* folder:

It has the two files exported during Part 1 and Part 2.

### The *part_1_mars_news.ipynb* Jupyter Notebook:

It contains the *Python* code used to scrape the web in **Part 1**.

### The *part_2_mars_weather.ipynb* Jupyter Notebook:

It contains the *Python* code used to scrape the web in **Part 2**.

## Data References

The dataset was generated by [edX Boot Camps LLC](https://www.edx.org/boot-camps).

The ficticious Mars News website used in Part 1 is found at [https://static.bc-edx.com/data/web/mars_news/index.html](https://static.bc-edx.com/data/web/mars_news/index.html).

The ficticious Mars weather data website used in Part 2 is found at [https://static.bc-edx.com/data/web/mars_facts/temperature.html](https://static.bc-edx.com/data/web/mars_facts/temperature.html).

```#Thank you for reading me!```

## Contributing

Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.
Please make sure to update tests as appropriate.

## License

[MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)
